>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's just
check out this challenge here.
So we are going to create a form to
edit our widget or selected widget item.
In doing so, because shared mutable
state is bad, we are going to create
a lifecycle hook to isolate that
mutation to the widget detail component.
Then interesting enough,
I had a button to save and cancel.
But we looked that up in
the previous challenge and
then using ngForm,
let's add in some validation.
All right, what say
you,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's
jump into the code,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
I'm just going to delete this.
because of that, I'm going to delete this,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And this.
And so now we are back to,
I think kind of the bare metal here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So far so good?
So I just deleted the form,
we're now just sending in a selected
widget.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
what I'm going to do for
the same of time, I'm going to go
to Item-detail.component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
I'm going to just copy this form.
Cuz it would be incredibly boring for
me to do this by hand.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We go back to
widget detail, and
I'm just going to paste this in.
Now what I'm going to do, so
I don't jump ahead too much.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I'll
just leave this off,
after this back in in a minute.
Let's change widget do this,
let's go selectedWidget.
Of course,
my template is going to be like what?
This doesn't exist.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Widget Description,
enter a description, and here we go.
So now the problem is we do not have
on our template.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: A selected
widget property.
So first and foremost,
let's go selectedWidget: Widget.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
then from here we're going to
convert this to a setter, so
we just go set,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
it becomes now a function.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: That
takes a value property,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Which
is of type widget.
And so now what we can do is go
this.selectedWidget = Object.assign,
and we're going to use an empty object.
And we're going to copy,
essentially we're taking value and
we're cloning it into this empty object,
okay?
And let's see if this even
renders.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Snap.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Okay,
let's go back up here, wait hold on.
And I'm not even throwing errors,
yes, amazing.
All right, let's go back to our,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Template here.
And so now we're checking for widget,
which no longer exists.
Because we're essentially intercepting
it and setting it to selectedWidget.
So what we can do here is say,
selectedWidget,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
let's just go,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: originalName.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Back into our
component.
Let's go originalName,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
I did something here
that I don't remember.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Just gonna copy it,
cuz no point in rehashing the wheel.
So go to widget, detail, component.
So essentially what we're doing here
is we're just checking to say this
are widget.
If so, set the originalName.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We'll
safeguard here, and let's refresh.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's go back, and
I did something wrong in the template.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: If no,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Right, so here,
we'll just check for ID.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's
refresh.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There we go.
Select a Widget,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
now we're passing it in.
So let's just look at
our markup real quick.
We have a form and we are simply binding
these two inputs using ngModel to our
selectedWidget name and description.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So far,
I think pretty simple that if we wanted
to actually edit even another property.
We would just add another input and
bind to that property on that object.
So for instance, if we go here,
let me just look at the interface.
So if image name, so
we have these various properties.
So if we wanted to edit for
instance featured which a boolean,
we probably want to do a check box.
But that could be done, so
we could just extend out.
For now, we're just doing name and
description.
So let's kick this up.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We
also don't need that.
And so now if I want to get a reference
to the underlined form group
on this form how do I do that?
>> Speaker 2: The form name?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What's that?
>> Speaker 2: Is it pound form name?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Equals,
wo we need a local variable that
you need to point it to something.
>> Speaker 2: ngFor.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Close.
>> Speaker 2: ngForm.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: ngForm, yes, awesome.
So we'll go myForm = ngForm.
And so now let's go, just so
we can check this out.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Also
we have had some questions
about actually debugging.
And there's kind of some various levels,
so
I just give you a couple
techniques right out of the gates.
So the first thing that I
like to do is pre-tag and
then jump or
dump rather my object into the template.
And then using dollar JASON,
I can basically convert into
a JSON structure, and see it.
So this works most of the time.
Occasionally,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: You'll
reference something.
So for instance, if I just tried to do my
form, without actually value or valid,
it would throw up.
So two JSON does not handle circular
references too well at all.
>> Speaker 3: Wouldn't that be a good use
for the object assign,
since you get a shallow copy?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Interesting.
I think I've actually tried that,
but that's a really good question.
So the question is,
would this be a good use case for
object.assign?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's see what
happens.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: If this works,
I am gonna jump over that table and
give you a high five.
That or I'll fly across or
I'll hop onto the drone,
and I'll have Mark fly me over there.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What the duce?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: The reason being is it
actually, for security reasons,
it's not going to let me evaluate this.
So there's other ways to do that, but
unfortunately that was a really nice idea.
I mean I was so hopeful in my heart.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All right, no errors.
So now we can see our form, so myForm.
And then we select this, it's valid.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
Cancel, which actually
does nothing in this case.
But we'll go here, we'll go here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
it appears that somewhere along the line,
my CSS styles are style in place.
Let me check.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
this is why we're seeing this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: But
more importantly, let's add a validation.
So we've been playing around
with this ngForm reference.
I'm going to drop this out and,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What I
am going to do,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: disabled,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: myForm.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: It's disabled if it's
not valid.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Notice I can't click
this.
>> [NOISE]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now I can.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And now I cannot.
So it's a pretty easy
way to destable input.
Yes?
>> Speaker 4: Are there max character
things that you look at?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There's a whole
bevy of options.
All right, so we are almost out of time.
We have about 30 minutes.
And so I really, really, really, really,
really wanna get it to server side
communication.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes?
>> Speaker 4: You had mentioned
the shadow yesterday,
you gonna be able to get time for that?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
I can elaborate on that quickly.
That under the hood, anytime you assign
a style to a component that Angular,
what it does is when it generates the DOM.
It assigns essentially this
quasi generated class to it.
And then it assigns all of those
component specific styles to that class.
So now you have this ultra
specific essentially,
CSS selector that will only work for
that component.
Now let me see if I can
actually show this here.
That,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
you notice here, ngcontent-mech-5 or
whatever this is.
So you see that?
This is completely
happening under the hood.
And then if I go up to the top,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Somewhere in here.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, it's there.
It's there.
>> Speaker 3: It's down a little bit.
>> Speaker 2: You can see the selectors.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yeah, so
you can see now it's
assigning that on there and
then this becomes super specific.
And so that's how that gets encapsulated,
and so it just kind of works.
So when you put it at a component then
it will be for that component and
its children.
And that's that.